# Continuous Discovery Habits

1. Always stay outcome-oriented. We want to drive outcomes that help our customers AND deliver business value - but the focus should always be from the client's perspective.
2. Stakeholders are going to often ask you for outputs over outcomes - try to drive the conversation toward focusing on the outcomes and opportunities you're solving to start to restructure this mindset. You won't get 100% away from "outputs", but you take what you can get because it make the overall product better.
3. Visualizing your outcome and its related tasks using an Opportunity Solution Tree (OST) can help break down your work into smaller, more manageable steps. Each step should be something that could be released to drive some iterative value.
4. When working with the OST - always start from a leaf node - furthest down - to solve an opportunity. Trying to solve an opportunity with child opportunities makes the project more complex, and you are able to deliver value less often.
5. Continously interview your clients as you're developing. Use the sessions to review what you've done, and re-evaluate your OST/opportunities that have already been defined. Reviewing what you've done ensures you are understanding what the client's needs are. It allows them to provide feedback for you to iterate on your solution. Reviewing the OST lets you move quickly as priorities change. You can remove opportunities no longer needed, alter ones that have evolved, or add new ones that you've uncovered.
6. Interviews should be conducted by the product trio to get different perspectives from the client and ensure that they are truly meeting the client's needs. For example, if the designer performed all interviews alone, the engineer or project manager would have no true perspective of the clients needs. You'd have to put 100% trust in the designer to make the choices in the client's best interest.
7. A well-defined OST can make it easier to prioritize work. You're able to quickly visualize the backlog and determine what major opportunities are outstanding. As you pick your priority target, you move down the tree and do the process again. This effectively takes a lot of cognitive load off of the planners. You're removing all of the other branches from consideration as you prioritize and traverse down the tree.
8. When determining what opportunities are more risky, consider the one- and two-way door decision scenarios. For example, the decision you need to make is can be represented as a door. When you step through it, the decision is made. If the door opens in only one direction, you cannot turn around and go back. Your decision is final and inherantly more risky. Take more time to plan this type of decision because you will want to be more certain of its success and have a plan to rapidly iterate forward if it doesn't go well. In the other scenario, a two-way door decision, you can easily turn around and go back through the door - undoing your decision. In these less-risky scenarios, feel more empowered to experiment and iterate more rapidly.
9. When prioritizing opportunities, avoid using scores to rank your tasks. Keep it subjective and messy, comparing sibiling opportunities to each other. This encourages you to have a healthy debate over your opportunities. This leaves room for doubt. Doubt would normally be a bad thing, but in continuous discovery, it makes it more likely that teams will course-correct when they find that they are addressing the wrong opportunities. 
10. When brainstorming solutions, be open-minded and feel free to throw out ideas that sound more outlandish. Try to be exhaustive with your ideas. Your first idea is rarely your best so it is good to keep thinking to make sure there isn't a better approach. When working with your team to collect ideas, review them all, remove any that don't solve the target opportunity, and vote on the top three you want to work on first.
11. Don't spend time trying to force yourself to come up with ideas. If you are brainstorming and feel yourself becoming blocked, take a break and come back to it. 
12. When planning a new solution - write out a story map of each step a user/actor will go through using your solution. From this map, look at each step and identify any assumptions that you have made about the user: Does the user want to actually do this? (Desirability), Does this solution create value and is it scalable? (Viability), Is it possible to build a solution that does what the user wants? (Feasibility), Will out solution be intuitive? (Usability), Is there any potential harm in building this solution? (Ethical)
13. After you determine your assumptions, you want to test your leap-of-faith assumptions. These are the ones that are the most important to making your solution successful, but you have no evidence to support them. You will want to test these before proceeding with implementing your solution.
14. Before you begin implementing a solution, have a pre-mortem. This is a meeting where you poke holes at your solution and try to figure out where it will fail. This can be a good way to plan for disaster recovery early or disqualify an unstable solution.
15. From this planning, begin testing your assumptions with small scale experiments before moving onto large data collection. Its better to see if there is a early signal that your solution will work before committing a lot of resources to it.
16. Unmoderated user testing and one question surveys are good ways to collect data for your experiments. It lets the user complete the experiment or answer a question on their own time and you can come back to the results as they are acquired.
17. Always measure your impact, but don't measure everything. Define the data that you want to collect up front along with any success/failure criteria for each measurement. 
18. When defining your results, stick to real numbers over percentages. Percentages can be misleading if the sample size isn't large enough to support them.
19. When presenting your work to stakeholders, show your work. Don't just give them a one-liner that explains the output. Instead, show them how you got to your solution and why. This helps them to see the importance of why you landed where you did.

